---
layout: post
title:      "An unassigned action item during the Sprint Retrospective is a giant fail. "
date:       2019-05-27 02:17:35 +0000
permalink:  an_unassigned_action_item_during_the_sprint_retrospective_is_a_giant_fail
---


There was a time in my life where I met the same group of friends each Sunday to watch the 4:00pm NFL game of the week. We usually took turns hosting the games. The location might have been different, but the tasks were usually the same(bring beer, food, etc). Sometimes the food was great, sometimes it wasn’t. Same with the beer. During the game my friends uttered comments like “don’t buy that garbage anymore” or “remember that cheesy thing from two weeks ago? We should have that next week”.  Sometimes people remembered what was said, and sometimes they didn’t. In addition to the food and alcohol, we also addressed items that annoyed us(ex. Dave’s house stinks because the TV is too small) or other suggestions that might make things better (ex. Bring your laptop so we can easily see the fantasy football stats in real time).  When people remembered the suggestions the game experience was good. The more people paid attention and took it upon themselves to take action, the better each week was. No improvement occurred when the suggestions were ignored or forgotten. Each week we iterated on our Game of the Week experience. If people volunteered and follow up with a completed task, the game experience that week was great. By week 7 we had this thing down.

At that time I didn’t know it, but my “team” was iterating on an experience, having an unofficial meeting to review the results, making suggestions on how to improve, and then delivering a slightly different and better version from the week before.  These actions and events correspond to the Agile Scrum world. Teams have a “Sprint”, which is a defined period of time (usually one to three weeks) to complete agreed upon tasks. At the end of the Sprint the team usually has a Sprint Retrospective. The retrospective is generally an hour long meeting in which team members discuss what went right, what went wrong, what we should continue doing and what we should stop doing. It might also include a suggestion such as “we can really use a dashboard in the middle of our room displaying our code coverage.”  In these Retrospectives people get to voice their opinions and the retros themselves are generally positive. 

All of this seems pretty clear cut, but something I have noticed time and time again in retrospectives is that great suggestions are useless if nobody is on the hook for making them happen. Similar to the example above, if somebody ignored the task of bringing “the cheesy thing” than no improvement occurs and we are at the same place as the week before. How do you remedy this? Easy, the Scrum Master or the person in the room running the meeting turns the task around and asks the person that suggested it “do you think you can take this on as an action item”? This person will either say yes or no, and if no someone else on the team should volunteer. A suggestion to improve without an owner to make it happen is only a suggestion. The real change occurs when the suggestion becomes a task with a specified owner. Then the “cheesy thing” appears and you get a better version of the game of the week. 
